---
title: Toxic BBQ @ DEF CON 31
feature_image: "/assets/photos/home_banner.png"
---
{% include figure.html image="/assets/logos/2023_banner.png" %}

**15:00 to 21:00** on Thursday, August 8 \\
at **Sunset Park, Foxtail Pavilion** [(36.0636, -115.1178)](https://www.google.com/maps/place/36.0636,-115.1178)
{: style="font-size: 120%; text-align: center;"}

*WAS AWESOME!* We had:

600 Hackers
600 Burgers
400 Hotdogs
98 Degrees
10 Racks of Ribs
2 Briskets
2 Gallons of Sauce
and Several Smokin’ Hot Butts

Photo Goon AJ702 provided some [great shots](/gallery)

*Here’s the rest of the invite page for posterity:*

The humans of Vegas invite you to this year’s unofficial welcome party. Join us off-Strip in the shade of Sunset Park for a heat-blasted hangout. Burgers, dogs, and meatless options are provided. Attendees pitch in to make everything else happen. Contribute more food and drinks, staff the grill or join supply runs, and relax under the trees with good conversation with new and old friends. 

Be a part of what makes this cookout something to remember year after year. Grab flyers from an Info Booth, and watch for #ToxicBBQ for the latest news.

## Important Times
Planning on attending? Here's the rough schedule for the BBQ:
- **1PM** // Supply Run departs from main Info Booth
- **3PM** // IT BEGINS (fires are lit)
- **9PM** // Clean-up starts
- **10PM** // Park Closes

First time? Check out [How Does this Work?](/volunteering) 

## Planned Events

- Peppercon will be there with bell (pepper)s on!
- Homebrew Exhibition: Bring your finest bitters or ciders and face off against fellow hackers
- *Weird Jerky, Engineered Meat,* and whatever you decide to cook up for us on the grill. Bring your rare cuts prepared to perfection. Grill them yourself on our expanded grill space.
- Solar Cooking Exhibition: Have some home-spun gadgets to scratch that itch for steamy sustenance. Solar cookers, alternative heat sources, and DIWhy gadgets welcome.

## For the latest info:
Grab flyers from an Info Booth after Linecon

Watch #ToxicBBQ on Twitter
Or come back here for the latest news

To help with planning the next Toxic BBQ, reach out to us! 
On Reddit: /u/DuncanYoudaho
On Twitter: @DuncanYoudaho
On the DEF CON Forums: Tangential